The UT psychology faculty is interested in studying the effects of mindfulness meditation on stress levels among students. They predict that participating in a mindfulness meditation program will lead to reduced levels of perceived stress and may even have effects on memory and decision making. How might you test this hypothesis?
You have noticed that you have increased your time on social media in the past several weeks. It has taken time away from other activities you enjoy and has also affected your mood in a negative way. You've even notice it affecting your memory and sleep! How might you address these issues?
During jury duty, you hear the testimony of an eyewitness who claims to have seen the defendant commit a robbery. The witness seems confident, but you recall learning that memory isn't always reliable. How might psychological research on memory, perception, and biases influence the accuracy of eyewitness testimony?
You love chocolate! You love the sensory experience surrounding eating chocolate, you love the occasions during which you eat chocolate, you have even studied some of the neuro-chemical reactions concerning chocolate. You would like to incorporate your love of chocolate into your study of psychology. How could you determine if chocolate has any effect on feelings of happiness?
Ever since moving into a new apartment, Jordan has experienced strange occurrences, footsteps at night, doors creaking open, and unexplained cold spots. Jordan swears the apartment is haunted, but their roommate is skeptical. The roommate believes there may be psychological explanations behind Jordan's experiences. What cognitive, perceptual, or neurological factors might contribute to Jordan's beliefs?
Dr. Martinez has been working long shifts at the hospital, sometimes going over 30 hours without sleep. She prides herself on her ability to push through fatigue, but lately, she has been making small mistakes in procedures. One day, she nearly prescribes the wrong medication to a patient. What effects might sleep deprivation be having on Dr. Martinez, and what cognitive and biological mechanisms could be at play?